# SMART-HOME-SYS

Nowadays most people are not yet very familiar with the concept of having an automated home system. The main reason why this technology didn't become something mainstream just yet is because of its complexity and cost [1]. Such a system consists of various IOT (Internet of Things) devices that are connected to the same internet network. This would allow all these devices to communicate between them and also with the user, giving him the chance to monitor and manage them remotely from a single control interface. At the moment there are a lot of manufacturers that offer these devices at a cheap price, but it doesn't make it any easier for common people to choose the right devices that are compatible with one another in order to create a simple and functional system.

Here is where the group members are coming up with a solution than would improve the user experience and would help all types of users to benefit from such a great technology. A Smart Home Kit that allows the users to control their homes with a simple mobile application. The system could contain any number of smart lightbulbs which are Wi-Fi enabled and a Raspberry Pi used as a server to control everything. The Raspberry Pi is working as a server implemented in NodeJS which is receiving commands from the native iOS/Android applications, developed in React Native. All the smart devices are Wi-Fi enabled and have open API. The server receives instructions from the mobile clients in the form of HTTP requests and sends commands to the LED using the SDK.

By directly offering a smart home kit which would include all the necessary hardware and software components, the user won't have to worry about anything else, the smart home kit would be easy to set up and it would also let the user to further extend the system with other functionality for other household appliances.

A full report of the project can be found in the pdf attached to this repository where a more in-depth look into the sections of the project is presented.
